****  The First Day: (Beginner)****

**An Introduction To Linux and GNU**

* What is an operating system?
* Linux History, GNU and open source
* Story of Unix, MINIX and Linus Torvalds
* What was the GNU
* Why do we use linux?
* Linux is free
* Linux distributions and why ubuntu is selected?
* Distributions philosophy
* Long time support (LTS)
* Difference between software packages and Linux kernel
* deb, rpm packages, etc.

**Post Installation Tasks**

* Explain what is the Boot loader
* Don't go deep
* Customizing desktop environment
* Changing background
* Set trackpad two finger functionality
* Add persian keyboard layout
* Changing theme
* Add icon to dash menu
* Show the control panel (but not get much deep into it)
* General user tasks
* Show nautilus, rhythmbox, empathy, firefox, OpenOffice etc.
* How to access other OSs drives and removable drives
* Using simple windows software
* Installing playonlinux and wine
* Show notepad running in linux
* !! Do not show more because wine is not stable enough

**Package Management and Installing a new software**

* Explain new package manager
* Use Ubuntu software center to install GIMP
* Install google chrome (deb file), Skype, Viber

**Difference between distro and desktop and Other graphical environments**

* Explain what is a graphic environment?
* Make it clear for the audience that graphical environment are separate from the OS and it can be changed in linux by the user desire
* Run kubuntu on one laptop
* Show kubuntu environment and some unity equivalent softwares

**Network Configuration (20 min)**

* How to connect to wifi
* How to setup a VPN
* How to set ip settings

**Users and Groups**

* What are groups and users
* Explain the superuser more

**File Hierarchy**

* Linux file hierarchy philosophy
* What is home directory
* What is root directory "/" and what's in it: /etc, /dev/, /usr, /bin & …

**Simple Bash**

* What is the terminal?
* What is bash?
* Why to use bash when there are graphical environments?
* Using manual pages (man)
* Teach user main commands with some of their useful flags (cd, ls, mv, rm, cp, mkdir, chmod, chown, tar, zip, unzip)
* Magic of tab
* Show user that they can use apt-get as an alternate package manager in terminal
   

****The Second Day (Intermediate):****
**An introduction to terminal**

* what is the terminal?
* what is bash?
* teach user main commands with some of their useful flags (cd, ls, mv, rm, cp, mkdir)
* bash, echo, env, exec, export, pwd, set, unset, man, uname, history
* supertab
* environment variables
* Basic file management (Task1: create dir and files and compress them, Task2: create binary backup from usb flash using dd)
* cp, find, mkdir, mv, ls, rm, rmdir, touch, tar, cpio, dd, file, gzip, gunzip, bzip2, file globbing
* Wildcards in commands like ls, etc
* explain what are the file permissions (read, write, execute)
* chmod, chown, chgrp, umask
* Find system files and place files in the correct location (Task: find shadow file and describe this file behavior)
* Understand the correct locations of files under the FHS.
* Find files and commands on a Linux system.
* Know the location and purpose of important file and directories as defined in the FHS.
* find, locate, updatedb, whereis, which, type, /etc/updatedb.conf
* Create and change hard and symbolic links (Task: create symbol link to bash file)
* Create links.
* Identify hard and/or softlinks.
* Copying versus linking files.
* Use links to support system administration tasks.

**Processing text files**

* cat, gedit, nano, less, tail, etc
* Use streams, pipes and redirects (Task 1: output stream from “du /etc > out”. Task 2: “diff file1 file2 | vim -”. Task 3: count lines of cpp files)
* Redirecting standard input, standard output and standard error.
* Pipe the output of one command to the input of another command.
* Use the output of one command as arguments to another command.
* Send output to both stdout and a file.

**Programming in Linux**

* Write and compile/run a simple hello world program in Genie IDE and vim
* Make and install programs from source (Task 1: download a project and install it!)
* Unpack source code using common compression and archive utilities.
* Understand basics of invoking make to compile programs.
* Apply parameters to a configure script.
* Know where sources are stored by default.
* /usr/src/, gunzip, gzip, bzip2, tar, configure, make, uname,install, patch

**Create, monitor and kill processes**

* un jobs in the foreground and background.
* ignal a program to continue running after logout.
* onitor active processes.
* elect and sort processes for display.
* end signals to processes.
* inux Standard Base Specification (LSB)
* ysV init environment
* , bg, fg, jobs, kill, nohup, ps, top, free, uptime, killall

**Create partitions and filesystems (Task: shrink a partition and then format it!)**

* Use various mkfs commands to set up partitions and create various filesystems such as: ext2/ext3/ext4, xfs, reiserfs v3, vfat, df
* fdisk
* mkfs
* mkswap
* gparted

**SSH**

* How to connect to another computer using SSH
* How to copy files with scp
* What are the keychain? (use ssh-keygen)
* RSA, DSA
* How to login using key pairs
* SSH in nautilus

**Measure and Troubleshoot Resource Usage (Task: kill a process)**

* Measure CPU usage.
* Measure memory usage.
* Estimate throughput and identify bottlenecks in a system including networking.
* pstree, ps, w, top, uptime, swap
* Basic network configuration and troubleshooting (Task: play with ifconfig and route)
* Utilities to configure and manipulate ethernet network interface
* /sbin/route, /sbin/ifconfig, /sbin/ip, /usr/sbin/arp, /sbin/iwconfig, /sbin/iwlist

**Manage shared libraries**

* Identify shared libraries.
* Identify the typical locations of system libraries.
* Load shared libraries.
* ldconfig
* LD_LIBRARY_PATH

